doc: add RBD persistent write-back cache (#38520)
ceph/ceph: doc/rbd/rbd-persistent-write-back-cache.rst

================================
 RBD Persistent Write-back Cache
================================

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; Persistent Write-back Cache

Persistent Write-back Cache
===========================

The persistent write-back cache provides a persistent, fault-tolerant write-back
cache for librbd-based RBD clients.

This cache uses a log-ordered write-back design which maintains checkpoints
internally so that writes that get flushed back to the cluster are always
crash consistent. Even if the client cache is lost entirely, the disk image is
still consistent but the data will appear to be stale.

Currently this cache uses PMEM devices as cache devices, and later SSDs will
be supported.

Usage
=====

The persistent write-back cache manages the cache data in a persistent device.
It looks for and creates cache files in a configured directory, and then caches
data in the file.

> The persistent write-back cache can't be enabled without exclusive lock. It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The persistent write-back cache can't be enabled without the exclusive-lock feature. It
```

tries to enable the write-back cache only when the exclusive lock is acquired.

The cache provides two different persistence modes. In persistent-on-write mode, the writes
are completed only when they are persisted to the cache device and will be
readable after a crash. In persistent-on-flush mode, the writes are completed
as soon as it no longer needs the caller's data buffer to complete the writes,

> but does not guarantee that writes will be readable after a crash. These data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but does not guarantee that writes will be readable after a crash. The data
```

> are persisted to the cache device when a flush request is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is persisted to the cache device when a flush request is received.
```

Initially it defaults to the persistent-on-write mode and it switches to

> persistent-on-flush mode after the first request is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
persistent-on-flush mode after the first flush request is received.
```

Enable Persistent Write-back Cache
========================================

To enable the persistent write-back cache, the following Ceph settings
need to be enabled.::

        rbd rwl enabled = true
        rbd plugins = pwl_cache

Here are some cache configuration settings:

> - ``rbd_rwl_path`` A file folder to cache data. This folder must enable DAX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``rbd_rwl_path`` A file folder to cache data. This folder must have DAX enabled
```

>   See `DAX`_. Or else the performance may be bad.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (see `DAX`_) to avoid performance degradation.
```

- ``rbd_rwl_size`` The cache size per image.

> - ``bd_rwl_log_periodic_stats`` This is a debug option. It is usded to emit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``rbd_rwl_log_periodic_stats`` This is a debug option. It is used to emit
```

>   periodic perf stats to debug log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  periodic perf stats to the debug log.
```

The above configurations can be set per-host, per-pool, per-image etc. Eg, to

> set per-host, please refer to the ``[client]`` `section`_. To set per-image etc,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set per-host, add the overrides to the appropriate `section`_ in the host's ``ceph.conf`` file. To set per-pool, per-image, etc,
```

please refer to the ``rbd config`` `commands`_.

> In general, the first settings are set per-image, and the other settings are

Reviewer: Hmm -- perhaps just drop this sentence.

Author: DONE

set per-host.

Cache Status
------------

The persistent write-back cache is enabled when the exclusive lock is acquired,
and it is closed when the exclusive lock is released. To check the transient
cache status, users may use the command ``rbd status``.  ::

        rbd status {pool-name}/{image-name}

The status of the cache is shown, including present, clean, cache size and the
position.

For example::

>         rbd status rbd/foo

Reviewer: Nit: can you show the example output:
```suggestion
        $ rbd status rbd/foo
```

Author: The output is added.

Discard Cache
-------------

To discard a cache file with ``rbd``, specify the ``image-cache invalidate``
option, the pool name and the image name.  ::

        rbd image-cache invalidate {pool-name}/{image-name}

The command removes the cache metadata of the corresponding image, disable
the cache feature and deletes the local cache file if it exists.

For example::

>         rbd image-cache invalidate rbd/foo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        $ rbd image-cache invalidate rbd/foo
```

================================
 RBD Persistent Write-back Cache
================================

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; Persistent Write-back Cache

Persistent Write-back Cache
===========================

> Persistent Write back cache provides a persistent, fault-tolerant write-back

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The persistent write-back cache provides a persistent, fault-tolerant write-back
```

> cache for Ceph RBD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cache for librbd-based RBD clients.
```

> This cache is LBA-based, ordered write-back cache which maintains checkpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This cache uses a log-ordered write-back design which maintains checkpoints
```

internally so that writes that get flushed back to the cluster are always
crash consistent. Even if the client cache is lost entirely, the disk image is

> holding a valid file system that looks like it is just a little bit stale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
still consistent but the data will appear to be stale.
```

Currently this cache uses PMEM devices as cache devices, and later SSDs will
be supported.

Usage
=====

> Persistent Write-back Image Cache manages the cache data in a persistent device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The persistent write-back cache manages the cache data in a persistent device.
```

It looks for and creates cache files in a configured directory, and then caches
data in the file.

> Persistent Write-back Image Cache can't be enabled without exclusive lock. It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The persistent write-back cache can't be enabled without exclusive lock. It
```

> tries to enable the write-back cache only when the exclusive lock is got.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tries to enable the write-back cache only when the exclusive lock is acquired.
```

> It provides two persistence modes. In persistent-on-write mode, the writes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cache provides two different persistence modes. In persistent-on-write mode, the writes
```

are completed only when they are persisted to the cache device and will be
readable after a crash. In persistent-on-flush mode, the writes are completed

> as soon as it no longer needs the callers' data buffer to complete the writes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as soon as it no longer needs the caller's data buffer to complete the writes,
```

but does not guarantee that writes will be readable after a crash. These data
are persisted to the cache device when a flush request is received.

> Initially it is in persistent-on-write mode, and it switches to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initially it defaults to the persistent-on-write mode and it switches to
```

> persistent-on-flush mode if a flush request is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
persistent-on-flush mode after the first request is received.
```

> Enable Persistent Write back Image Cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable Persistent Write-back Cache
```

========================================

> To enable RBD persistent write-back image cache, the following Ceph settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the persistent write-back cache, the following Ceph settings
```

> need to enable in the ``[client]`` `section`_ of your ``ceph.conf`` file::

Reviewer: We generally try to avoid saying "put things in your ceph.conf" file since we have multiple ways to override configs (ceph.conf, global MON config store, per-pool, per-image, etc). These two settings seem like they would be configured per-image. The settings below are more likely to be configured per-host (perhaps via the ceph.conf file). In general, I think this section needs some cleaning up.

Author: Updated.

        rbd rwl enabled = true
        rbd plugins = pwl_cache

Here are some cache configuration settings:

- ``rbd_rwl_path`` A file folder to cache data. This folder must enable DAX.
  See `DAX`_. Or else the performance may be bad.

- ``rbd_rwl_size`` The cache size per image.

- ``bd_rwl_log_periodic_stats`` This is a debug option. It is usded to emit
  periodic perf stats to debug log.

Discard Cache
-------------

To discard a cache file with ``rbd``, specify the ``image-cache invalidate``
option, the pool name and the image name.  ::

        rbd image-cache invalidate {pool-name}/{image-name}

The command removes the cache metadata of the corresponding image, disable

> the cache feature and delete the local cache file if it exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the cache feature and deletes the local cache file if it exists.
```
